docs: add core24 to core26 migration guide (#6129)
snapcore/snapcraft: docs/how-to/change-bases/change-from-core24-to-core26.rst

.. meta::
    :description: How to migrate a snap's base from core24 to core26.

.. _how-to-change-from-core24-to-core26:

Change from core24 to core26
============================

This is a guide for migrating a snap that uses core24 as its base to core26.

core26 is built from Ubuntu 26.04 LTS. For most snaps, the migration consists of
checking dependencies and extensions. If your snap has strict confinement and runs
Python code, you need to add a Python runtime.

Check extension support
-----------------------

> Not all extensions are compatible with core26 at launch. If your snap uses an extension,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all extensions are compatible with core26 at its launch. If your snap uses an extension,
```

Might be slightly clearer.

run ``snapcraft extensions`` to see if it's available for core26. If your snap uses an
extension that does not yet support core26, it's best to wait to upgrade.

Update the base
---------------

Start with updating the ``base`` key:

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml

    - base: core24
    + base: core26

Update packages

> ---------------

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
Update the packages
-------------------
```

Since the other heading has an article.

Package names and versions change between Ubuntu releases. If you have parts that
declare :ref:`build-packages <PartSpec.build_packages>` or :ref:`stage-packages

> <PartSpec.stage_packages>`, those packages may need to be updated in your project file.

Reviewer: Nit for passive voice:

```suggestion
<PartSpec.stage_packages>`, you might need to update those packages in your project file.
```

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml

    parts:
      python-runtime:
        plugin: nil
        stage-packages:
          - libpython3.14-minimal
          - libpython3.14-stdlib
          - python3.14-minimal
          - python3-venv
          - python3-minimal

      my-app:
        after: [python-runtime]
        source: .
        plugin: python

Replace snapcraftctl
--------------------

With core26, snapcraftctl is replaced with :ref:`craftctl <reference-external-package-scriptlets>`.

In your project file's scriptlets, find and replace all instances of ``snapcraftctl`` with
``craftctl``. For example:

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml

    - snapcraftctl pull
    + craftctl default
    - snapcraftctl set-grade stable
    + craftctl set grade=stable

Update Spread test systems
--------------------------

Snaps should behave the same regardless of the host operating system, but testing
on Ubuntu 26.04 may expose failures, such as classically-confined snaps incorrectly
accessing host packages.

If your project uses the :ref:`test <ref_commands_test>` command for integration

> testing, it’s recommended to test your snap with Ubuntu 26.04. Add it to the list of

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
testing, it's recommended to test your snap with Ubuntu 26.04. Add it to the list of
```

I'm cursed to notice these things.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/6129/commits/24ef11b71dbbbb13dd6533a4faa8a07d1743bdb3
